[INTERNAL FIX] installer-about-ip-nits (#65304)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-process.adoc

// * installing/index.adoc
// * architecture/architecture-installation.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="installation-process_{context}"]
= Installation process

Except for the {ai-full}, when you install an {product-title} cluster, you must download the installation program from
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
the appropriate link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/create[*Cluster Type*] page on the {cluster-manager} {hybrid-console-second}. This console manages:

* REST API for accounts.
* Registry tokens, which are the pull secrets that you use to obtain the required components.

> * Cluster registration, which associates the cluster identity to your Red Hat account, so to facilitate the gathering of usage metrics

Reviewer: I think adding "so" here makes this more confusing to read imo, I'd personally keep it the way it was and add a period for parallel structure:

```suggestion
* Cluster registration, which associates the cluster identity to your Red Hat account to facilitate the gathering of usage metrics.
```

endif::[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
https://github.com/openshift/okd/releases.
endif::[]

> In {product-title} {product-version}, the installation program is a Go binary file that performs a series of file transformations on a set of assets. The way you interact with the installation program differs depending on your installation type. Consider the following installation user cases:

Reviewer: should this be "use cases"?

> * To deploy a cluster with the {ai-full}, you must configure the cluster settings by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2022/html-single/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/index[{ai-full}]. There is no installation program to download and configure. After you complete the cluster configuration settings, you download a discovery ISO and then boot cluster machines with that image. You can install clusters with the {ai-full} on Nutanix, vSphere, and bare metal with full integration, and other platforms without integration. If you install on bare metal, you must provide all of the cluster infrastructure and resources, including the networking, load balancing, storage, and individual cluster machines.

Reviewer: Since this is merely descriptive rather than instructional, is "must" necessary to include here?

```suggestion
* To deploy a cluster with the {ai-full}, you configure the cluster settings by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2022/html-single/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/index[{ai-full}]. There is no installation program to download and configure. After you complete the cluster configuration settings, you download a discovery ISO and then boot cluster machines with that image. You can install clusters with the {ai-full} on Nutanix, vSphere, and bare metal with full integration, and other platforms without integration. If you install on bare metal, you must provide all of the cluster infrastructure and resources, including the networking, load balancing, storage, and individual cluster machines.
```

> * To deploy a cluster with the {ai-full}, you must configure the cluster settings by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2022/html-single/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/index[{ai-full}]. There is no installation program to download and configure. After you complete the cluster configuration settings, you download a discovery ISO and then boot cluster machines with that image. You can install clusters with the {ai-full} on Nutanix, vSphere, and bare metal with full integration, and other platforms without integration. If you install on bare metal, you must provide all of the cluster infrastructure and resources, including the networking, load balancing, storage, and individual cluster machines.

Reviewer: I'm not sure "completing the cluster configuration settings" is the way we'd describe this part of the process. I'd double check with an SME but here's one potential suggestion:

```suggestion
* To deploy a cluster with the {ai-full}, you must configure the cluster settings by using the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2022/html-single/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/index[{ai-full}]. There is no installation program to download and configure. After you finish setting the cluster configuration, you download a discovery ISO and then boot cluster machines with that image. You can install clusters with the {ai-full} on Nutanix, vSphere, and bare metal with full integration, and other platforms without integration. If you install on bare metal, you must provide all of the cluster infrastructure and resources, including the networking, load balancing, storage, and individual cluster machines.
```

> * To deploy clusters with the Agent-based installer, you must download the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/metal/agent-based[agent-based installer] first. You can then configure the cluster and generate a discovery image. You boot cluster machines with the discovery image, which installs an agent that communicates with the installation program and handles the provisioning for you instead of you interacting with the installation program or setting up a provisioner machine yourself. You must provide all of the cluster infrastructure and resources, including the networking, load balancing, storage, and individual cluster machines. This approach is ideal for air-gapped or restricted network environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To deploy clusters with the Agent-based Installer, you must download the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/metal/agent-based[Agent-based Installer] first. You can then configure the cluster and generate a discovery image. You boot cluster machines with the discovery image, which installs an agent that communicates with the installation program and handles the provisioning for you instead of you interacting with the installation program or setting up a provisioner machine yourself. You must provide all of the cluster infrastructure and resources, including the networking, load balancing, storage, and individual cluster machines. This approach is ideal for disconnected environments.
```

Reviewer: Also, I am once again wondering if phrases like "must" and "you can then" are necessary in this descriptive content that explains an example workflow of this install

Author: I think the addition of modals adds better structure to the sentences. The sentences seem off without them, as our main intent is to target what our users can do with our products.

Installation with the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2022/html-single/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/index[{ai-full}] involves creating a cluster configuration interactively by using the web-based user interface or the RESTful API. The {ai-full} user interface prompts you for required values and provides reasonable default values for the remaining parameters, unless you change them in the user interface or with the API.  The {ai-full} generates a discovery image, which you download and use to boot the cluster machines. The image installs {op-system} and an agent, and the agent handles the provisioning for you. You can install {product-title} with the {ai-full} and full integration on Nutanix, vSphere, and bare metal. Additionally, you can install {product-title} with the {ai-full} on other platforms without integration.

{product-title} manages all aspects of the cluster, including the operating system itself. Each machine boots with a configuration that references resources hosted in the cluster that it joins. This configuration allows the cluster to manage itself as updates are applied.

> If possible, use the {ai-full} feature to avoid having to download and configure the agent-based installer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If possible, use the {ai-full} feature to avoid having to download and configure the Agent-based Installer.
```

[discrete]
== The installation process with Agent-based infrastructure

> Agent-based installation is similar to using the {ai-full}, except that you must initially download and install the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/metal/agent-based[Agent-based installer]. Agent-based installation is useful when you want all the convenience of the {ai-full}, but you need to install a cluster on an air-gapped or disconnected network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent-based installation is similar to using the {ai-full}, except that you must initially download and install the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/metal/agent-based[Agent-based Installer]. An Agent-based installation is useful when you want the convenience of the {ai-full}, but you need to install a cluster in a disconnected environment.
```

====

Bootstrapping a cluster involves the following steps:

. The bootstrap machine boots and starts hosting the remote resources required for the control plane machines to boot. If you provision the infrastructure, this step requires manual intervention.
. The bootstrap machine starts a single-node etcd cluster and a temporary Kubernetes control plane.
. The control plane machines fetch the remote resources from the bootstrap machine and finish booting. If you provision the infrastructure, this step requires manual intervention.
. The temporary control plane schedules the production control plane to the production control plane machines.
. The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) comes online and installs the etcd Operator. The etcd Operator scales up etcd on all control plane nodes.
. The temporary control plane shuts down and passes control to the production control plane.
. The bootstrap machine injects {product-title} components into the production control plane.

> . The installation program shuts down the bootstrap machine.  If you provision the infrastructure, this step requires manual intervention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The installation program shuts down the bootstrap machine. If you provision the infrastructure, this step requires manual intervention.
```
